>> Bianca Gandolfo: My name is Bianca.
What should you know about me?
I'm a JavaScript developer.
I work as a consultant, so I go into
most of the enterprise companies and
help them with their JavaScript.
They also work on open source.
Part of our company, we have an open
source framework called KJS.
So I do work on that as well.
Today, we're going to
talk about algorithms.
Like Mark said, this is part of a four
class series on data structures and
algorithms.
So this is the sort of
foundational knowledge and
as we move along the series we're
going to build on these topics.
So we're gonna talk about the algorithms,
only today,
no data structures today,
aside from maybe an object or an array.
And then next time,
we're gonna go over some common interview
data structures and algorithms.
And then we're gonna apply this stuff, so
this would be a pre-req
to the following course.
And we'll apply these algorithms
to some common data structures,
to some common interview questions and
then the next part.
Part three and
four is all trees and graph theory.
So as web developers,
that's so, so important.
So we're just two days doing all of that.
Traversing, sorting,
balancing, all of that.
So that's sort of the higher
level progression of this course.
So,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Today is algorithms.
So, what is an algorithm?
Why should you care?
So algorithm is just the steps
that you take to solve a problem.
Why should you care?
You're an engineer.
It's your job to solve problems.
When we learn about algorithms,
we're learning different techniques to
solve problems in a certain way,
we're identifying patterns.
And we're applying algorithms to
those patterns, to get a result,
to improve the speed of our programs.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
what are we gonna cover today?
We're gonna cover a lot.
So we're going to discuss
really informally how to
generally estimate an algorithm.
We're not gonna go into mathematical
proofs or anything like that.
But we're going to talk about
little things that you can
spot to start to reason about
the time complexity of an algorithm.
Then we're gonna talk about a couple
techniques for optimization,
which are fun.
We're gonna get really
comfortable with recursion.
How are people feeling about recursion,
right now?
Feeling good?
Okay, cool.
Well, you're gonna be like man,
I think most of this course
is like recursive algorithms.
And going through recursion
in a bunch of different ways.
So if you're feeling like this,
you'll probably be like this at the end.
If you're feeling like this,
you'll probably be here.
So that's fun and something, you know,
it's like such an abstract thing,
it's hard for a lot of people.
So I like to focus on that.
Cuz that's the foundation of a lot
of algorithms, and then we have,
of course, the data structures as well.
So we're gonna do a couple sorting, a
couple searching, I'm not gonna go through
the exhaustive list of every sorting and
searching algorithm, because, you know.
Snooze, but we'll go through a couple and
focus on the implementation
of them rather than the theoretical
aspects of sorting and searching.
If I have time in a future course,
I might go into that, but we'll see.
I don't think it's the most
important thing to understand like
what are the trade-offs between bubble
sort and insertion sort because at
the end of the day, when you get into
your interview, you seem to know one.
You know what I mean so, sure.
We're gonna talk about also the Divide and
Conquer technique and Dynamic Programming.
You might see these and
think okay, recursion.
You're right, recursion, more recursion.
Same with sorting and
searching, recursion.
And then we're gonna talk about the Greedy
technique and my opinions about the Greedy
technique, and how you should apply
the Greedy technique to interviews.
And then we'll also talk
about brute force as well.
Recursive brute force.
Any questions about all of this?
Cool, so it is a lot.
There are corresponding exercises for
each of these topics.
Probably not gonna be able to
finish them in class today
just because I wanna get through a lot.
But you should have a solid attempt for
most of them.
And then we can be in touch after
class if you need help with anything,
and online folks, too.
You can always tweet at me or email me.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Your exercise
solutions, if you want feedback or
you're stuck or whatever,
happy to do that.